---
title: "Teaching Assistant ‑ LOG8371E: Software Quality Engineering"
collection: teaching
type: "Bachelor's degree | Graduate course"
permalink: /teaching/2023-LOG8371E
venue: "Polytechnique Montreal, Department of Computer and Software Engineering"
date: 2023-01-10
location: "Montreal, Canada"
---

- **Prerequisites**: 70 credits
- **Weekly Hours**: 3 (in-class), 1.5 (practical work), 4.5 (individual work)
- **Credits**: 3
- **Semester Offered**: Fall
- [**Syllabus**](/files/pdf/teaching/LOG8371E.pdf)

Basic concepts and definitions relevant to software quality, quality assurance, tests, quality engineering and
quality planning. Anomaly prevention and fault classification. Fault tolerance. Software reliability engineering.
Quality models. Comparison of various quality assurance techniques. Improvement of the software development
process. Measuring software and its processes. Identification of risks for the quantifiable improvement of quality.


## Course and Lab Objectives

By the end of the course, the student will be able to:
- carry out a quality assurance plan
- determine software validation and verification activities
- know the principal techniques for software measurements
- analyze software and process measurements to make a quality diagnosis
- realize the importance and necessity of quality control
- adopt a critical position in terms of software quality


## Course Content

- Quality software perspectives
- Quality engineering activities and processes
- Software testing concepts
- Aspects of quality assurance beyond testing
- Quantifiable aspects of quality
- Quality and measurement models
- Risk identification


## Practical Work

- Familiarization with data from quality measurement programs
- Design of quality plans
- Analysis of measurement program results
- Analysis of software product security vulnerabilities

## Assessment Methods

- Periodic testing (30%)
- Practical work (30%)
- Final exam (40%)