---
title: "Toward Reliable, Production-Ready Deep Reinforcement Learning Systems"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2023-DEEL
venue: "Les Carrefours DEEL France – Québec Seminar"
date: 2023-10-12
location: "(Online) Montreal, Canada"
gallery:
- url: talks/DEEL_1.jpg
  image_path: talks/DEEL_1.jpg
  alt: ""
  title: ""
- url: talks/DEEL_2.jpg
  image_path: talks/DEEL_2.jpg
  alt: ""
  title: ""
- url: talks/DEEL_3.jpg
  image_path: talks/DEEL_3.jpg
  alt: ""
  title: ""
---

{% include gallery %}

In a notable session of ["Les Carrefours DEEL France – Québec,"](https://www.deel.ai/carrefour-deel/) I had the 
opportunity to present my latest research, underscoring the advancements towards achieving reliable and production-ready 
Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) systems. Organized by the IRT Saint Exupéry and the Institute Intelligence and Data 
of Université Laval, this monthly transatlantic seminar series facilitates a vibrant exchange between the Quebec and 
France components of the [DEEL project](https://www.deel.ai/), spotlighting pioneering research and fostering 
cross-continental dialogue among stakeholders.

**Webinar Recording:**  
For those who missed the live session or wish to revisit the presentation, the recording is available on
the [DEEL project YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1vK9CtXY3Lc&list=PLe0GsO2LeMrKr9RXQhrLL9bEIdID0MMWr&index=24&ab_channel=DEELproject).

**My Contributions:**
1. **An Intentional Forgetting-Driven Self-Healing Method for DRL Systems:**  
    We introduced an approach at the International Conference on Automated 
    Software Engineering (ASE) 2023. Our work proposes a novel self-healing method that incorporates intentional 
    forgetting within Deep Reinforcement Learning systems, significantly enhancing their adaptability and performance 
    in dynamic environments. [Read our paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10298566).

2. **Deploying DRL Systems: A Taxonomy of Challenges:**  
   We delved into the intricacies of deploying DRL systems across diverse platforms. Presented at the International 
   Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME) 2023, our study categorizes the multifaceted challenges 
   encountered during deployment, offering a comprehensive taxonomy and insights to navigate these hurdles effectively. 
[Read our paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10336261).

**Seminar Highlights:**
- Insight into the burgeoning interest and challenges in deploying DRL systems, reinforced by an empirical study 
analyzing discussions within the Stack Overflow community.
- Introduction of "Dr. DRL," an innovative self-healing approach that strategically integrates intentional forgetting 
to mitigate the adverse effects of environmental drifts and enhance the resilience of DRL systems.

**Reflections:**
This seminar not only served as a platform to share my contributions to the field but also as an invaluable opportunity 
for engagement and knowledge exchange with peers and experts across the globe. As we continue to push the boundaries of 
AI and software engineering, I am eager to further explore and address the challenges in making DRL systems more robust, 
reliable, and ready for widespread production use.

I invite everyone interested in the evolution of AI systems and their deployment challenges to view the recording of 
this seminar and join us in our ongoing journey of discovery and innovation.