---
title: "DiverGet: A Search-Based Software Testing Approach for Deep Neural Network Quantization Assessment"
collection: talks
type: "Journal First Paper Presentation"
permalink: /talks/2023-ICSE
venue: "IEEE/ACM International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) 2023"
date: 2023-05-18
location: "Melbourne, Australia"
gallery:
- url: talks/ICSE_1.jpg
  image_path: talks/ICSE_1.jpg
  alt: ""
  title: ""
- url: talks/ICSE_2.png
  image_path: talks/ICSE_2.png
  alt: ""
  title: ""
- url: talks/ICSE_3.png
  image_path: talks/ICSE_3.png
  alt: ""
  title: ""
---

{% include gallery %}

**Abstract:**  
In the realm of software engineering, the compression of Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) for efficient deployment on devices 
like embedded systems and smartphones is crucial. Among the various strategies, quantization stands out for its 
simplicity and versatility across different applications and environments. However, the rising reliance on quantization 
calls for robust reliability assessments, a challenge compounded by the vast input space and the subtle differences 
between original and quantized DNN models. Traditional testing methods, focusing on accumulating real-world data, fall 
short due to these complexities.

This presentation introduced "DiverGet," a pioneering search-based testing framework designed to evaluate the reliability 
of DNN quantization. DiverGet innovates by defining a spectrum of metamorphic relations that mimic real-world distortions 
in inputs, thereby facilitating an efficient exploration of discrepancies across DNNs of varying arithmetic precisions. 
The framework was rigorously tested on cutting-edge DNNs employed in hyperspectral remote sensing imagery, a choice 
motivated by the critical applications of such networks in areas like climate change research and astronomy. 
The results revealed DiverGet's superior ability to expose the limitations of conventional quantization techniques 
under natural data shifts, significantly outperforming its latest competitor, DiffChaser, by achieving a success rate 
four times higher on average.

**Key Takeaways:**
- Introduction of DiverGet, a search-based framework for the assessment of DNN quantization reliability.
- Demonstration of DiverGet's effectiveness in identifying quantization weaknesses using metamorphic testing, 
specifically in the context of remote sensing DNNs.
- DiverGet's comparative performance analysis, highlighting its superior success rate over existing methodologies.

Presented at the 2023 edition of ICSE, the foremost conference in software engineering since 1975, this work contributes 
to the ongoing discourse on innovative testing methodologies that address the evolving challenges in deploying DNN 
models across various platforms.
